- three-phase banks of single-phase -
whining transformers are shown in the
figure below group alpha and group beta
their connections to the primary phases
are also indicated explain why you can
or why you cannot connect them both in
parallel the rated values for one of the
single-phase transformers of the top
group let's say these transformer here
are 300 kV a that is the power rating of
this one 17.3 key level studies the
voltage rating of this coil 120 volts
that is a voltage rating of his coil
here the impedance short-circuit of this
transformer is J hundred ohms measured
on the high voltage side for one of the
transformers of group beta this one the
ratings are a hundred kV a 10 kilovolts
here on the primary 208 volt rated
voltage on the secondary and J a hundred
ohms measured on the high voltage side
again to connect them in parallel we
should check that they are of the same
clonk group that they have the same
single phase transformation ratio and
that they have the same per unit
short-circuiting penis let's begin with
the clock group for the first one the
first group that group Alfa has
primaries connected in Hawaii and has
secondaries connected in a Delta we
write the connection is y in Delta for
the primary in a y the standard
connection is this so we can label the
assess transformer X transformer Y pan
transformer Z and the secondary voltages
are in phase with those ones but
connected in a Delta only two
possibilities exist for the Delta of the
secondary given the phases imposed on
those three coils by the primary
voltages either this connection or that
connection let's see which one we have
the tip of X 2 is connected to the tail
of Z 2 well the tip of
x2 would be this one is connected in
this case to the tale of y2 so this
connection is not this one let's try
again the tip of x2 is connected to the
tale of z2 this is a connection so this
is the primary and this is the secondary
now where is face a of the secondary
observe at the tip of x2 at the tip of
x2 so this is phase a of the secondary
and this has to be phase B and phase C
of the secondary and they comply why to
tip why to tip is way to Z to tip is Z
to immediately we realize this is not a
standard convention so this is a yd1
hmm that is not compliant anymore so
without doing anything to the connection
proper just by relabeling them and
saying this is going to be base a of the
secondary phase B of the secondary and
Phase II of the secondary we have with
the same wiring a compliant connection
which is y d5 y t5 just by doing that
just relabeling let's do the relabeling
in here so this would be instead of B 2
would be a 2 C 2 would be B 2 and a 2
would be C 2 just buy that relabeling we
have normalized this old connection is a
YT 5 however if you write Y D 1 you are
correct and you also get full marks in
either case you get full marks let's see
the second connection in this group beta
the primary is connected in a delta and
the secondary in there why let's see
what is the standard Delta for the
primary this one between B 1 and a 1 we
have the primary of transformer X
between B 1 and a 1 we have the
of transformer ecstasy's transformer
eggs between C 1 and B 1 we have the
primary of transformer Y between C 1 and
E 1 transformer and this is transformers
and with the primary connected in a
delta only 2 possibilities exist for the
Y's of the secondaries imposed by the
faces of the voltages in the primary
those are shown here which one is the
one represented by this connection the
dots are joined in together so it's not
this one it's the second one according
to this one a 2 is a tail of the
secondary of transformer X so this is a
to the tail of Y 2 is B 2 and the tail
of Z 2 is C 2 in short this connection
is d y5 d y5 the first one was a yd 5 so
far they seem to be connected in
parallel now we compute this single
phase transformation wish for alpha this
could be computed as inertial to face
voltage of the primary related to the
neutral to face voltage of the secondary
or as a line to line voltage of the
primary related to the line to line
voltage of the secondary the line to
line voltage of his primary will be root
3 times the voltage of one of those
coils 17.3 kilos and the voltage line to
line of the secondary because this is a
delta is just 120 volts so that ratio of
this Bank is this is approximately 250
let's find the transformation ratio for
group but in these guys the primary line
to line voltage is the same coil voltage
is 10 kilo volts but the line to line
voltage of the secondary that is
connected in a Y is root 3 x - 8
this ratio he is twenty seven point
eight so they have different jump
Meishan ratios and should not be
connected in parallel however some of
you may have started by testing the
clock group and then the short circuit
impedence let's see how the short
circuit impedances of these two banks
compared to one another the short
circuit impedance of any of these
connections in per unit is the same one
as a single phase transformer so for
group alpha in per unit the impedance is
a hundred divided by the base impedance
of this transformer this value was
measured from the high voltage side so
we use this voltage on the high side 0.1
let's find the per unit impedance of the
second bank the per unit short circuit
impedances of both transformers are the
same the two banks meet two out of the
three conditions to be connected in
parallel but these are and conditions if
one of them is not met again not or they
should not be connected in parallel
which is the case they should not be
connected in parallel thank you very
much
you